Lotec Technology Challenge No: 2 Server Side Rendering

Main Objective of the Application and Challenge: Implement an application using Handlebars as template engine and express.js as
the web framework, use postgreSQL as database management system, host the website on Amazon Web Services(AWS) EC2 machine and 
host database on AWS RDS

Features of the Application:

1. List All TODO Tasks from the Browser
2. List All Done TODO Tasks from the Browser
3. List All Undone TODO Tasks from the Browser
4. Add a New TODO Task from the Browser
5. Delete a TODO Task from the Browser
6. Update a TODO Task from the Browser
7. Mark a Done TODO Task as Undone from the Browser
8. Mark an Undone TODO Task as Done from the Browser

Installing express.js, handlebars, body-parser, method-override (On Terminal)
npm install express express-handlebars body-parser method-override

Installing pgAdmin
npm install pg

Install PostgreSQL From:
https://www.enterprisedb.com/downloads/postgres-postgresql-downloads

Warning: If there is "The database cluster initialisation failed" failure, please check the locale settings first, then delete and reinstall the PostgreSQL with correct locale selection.

Once everything is up and running (try to write clean code), host the website on AWS EC2 machine.

Steps to Host the Web site on AWS EC2 machine

1. Create a new account(unless already have an account) on Amazon Web Services
2. Navigate to the EC2 from the search bar on top of the Amazon website
3. Click on instances
4. Click on launch instances and enter the server name
5. Select the operating system of the machine
6. Select the instance type (free tier eligible recommended)
7. Create a new key pair and save it in a secure place
8. Do not forget to select the "allow ssh traffic form anywhere(0.0.0.0/0)"

Connect to the EC2 machine:
There four ways to connect to the EC2 machine, however simplest way is to selecting the "EC2 Instance Connect" option.
Check the machine status.

Steps to Host the Database on AWS RDS

1. Navigate to RDS from the search bar on top of the Amazon website
2. Click on the databases
3. Click on Create Database
4. Select the Desired Engine Type (PostgreSQL is selected for this project)
5. Select the version of the database
6. Select the Template (Free Tier is recommended)
7. Enter master user information and password 
8. Allow public access if needed 
9. Choose VPC security group
10. Determine the DB instance identifier if needed

On pgAdmin specific:
1. Create a new server
2. Enter desired server name
3. Copy the endpoint address on the RDS menu under "Connectivity and Security" section
4. Paste the endpoint address on host
5. Enter the port (5432 as default)
6. If there are no issues hosting is complete

Incase of time out issues;
1. Click on VPC security groups on RDS menu under "Connectivity and Security" section
2. Edit inbound rules
3. Add a new rule allowing PostgreSQL access

Connect to the database from EC2 machine
1. Install PostgreSQL (or used database) on machine
2. Install httpd (apache server) if needed
3. Start the httpd server and database if needed
4. Copy the endpoint address on the RDS menu under "Connectivity and Security" section and paste it on the console as the host address
5. Enter master user name and password of RDS
6. Check the connection

At last the:
1. Inside the code in connection section change the host as the endpoint address on the RDS
2. Easy way to pull the application on EC2 machine is to commiting the application on github and pulling from github
3. Run the application on EC2 machine
4. Navigate to the public IP on the browser

